Hopefully with this exercise,
you now have enter update exit working for
our film flowers using
the new way with join and
let's code together on this.
So, as we always have, we have our SVG.
And we're going to first start out
with our parent group element.
And we're going to say svg.selectAll
of our Group elements and
we're going to bind
the data from our flowers.
And in this particular example,
and a filter flowers,
I'm sorry filtered flowers.
In this particular example,
we're going to use the title
as our key, in our key function,
and instead of ID.
We again, if we were making
a full on visualization project,
I highly recommend using a unique ID.
But for this example,
we have the title so,
and that I think will work well enough.
So let's use that as our key.
And and let's use join.
And because we have to create
some pads and texts within our
parent group element,
we're going to pass in some functions.
So the first one is a function and we're
going to receive our Enter selection.
And so let's go ahead and
create our group element on that.
As you might remember, and actually,
then after we create the groups,
let's create the pet the paths and texts.
And so, again, we're going to do
selectAll paths in our
parent group element.
And then we're going to bind the data.
And this time around, we are passing in
a function and
to create our multiple petal paths so
that again, we're doing .times and
we want the number of petals.
And we're going to use and so
I think Bruno in the chat has
suggested another way of copying
over our data into a new object.
And I hope I remember this correctly.
If not, we'll go back to
how we had done it before.
And that is we can first
put in our rotate.
And so that is the index times 360 degrees
divided by the total number of petals.
So we want to actually,
let's do this and it's close.
Wait, no, that's correct.
Return, rotate and
we use the spreader D and
that should hopefully get us and
the data object that we want.
And then here, and for
this particular one I am these petals.
These path elements, the are children
of our parent group elements.
We can either passing IDs but
because we're not trying
to do any like,
I'm difficult updating on them.
I'm not going to pass in a key function.
But if we were to pass in a key function,
we can indeed do it after
that first function.
So after we pass in the function
to create our data array,
we can certainly pass in another function
that maybe says like
maybe it's the rotation.
Yeah, that's a bad example but
and it's it really is that we don't
need it for our petal pads but
if you find that you need to be able to
distinguish your children elements also,
then you can always pass in another key
function after this first function.
We're going to cojoin, so
that this part takes care of all
of the enter, update exit for us.
And then I'm we are going to
set the attributes on our
petals as we've done before.
And let's just quickly do that together.
No, we want to rotate.
So we use d.rotate and
then we want to scale
these pedals also d.scale.
Let's define attribute and
we're using d.path for that.
And fill is our d.color.
Stroke is also our d.color.
And fill capacity and
fill capacity is just 0.5 and
stroke width is 2.
And once we have this part done
we should be able to see it
our flowers overlapping each other.
There we go right there.
All of her flowers are just kind
of overlapped on each other,
like on that 00 position.
That's okay because that means
our petals have been created and
let's create some text.
So let us do
the g.append
that text and
let's see,
.text, d.text.
And just some notes of text anchor.
So center our text and
vertically center our text and then,
Set, The font size.
So this is the same thing as before, so
I really don't need to
be doing this right now.
Okay, so and now we should be
able to come back and see,
You're not seeing it and that's because
yes, I haven't set the text on it yet
but and we have the text element
created for each of them.
And I want to put in a note here
that you might be noticing we
are doing the whole Enter,
Update, Exit pattern for
the paths within the parent
group elements, Enter selection.
We're also doing you know all of our
data dependent attributes setting within
the Enter selection.
And this is just because in this
particular example, we don't do any
updating on the petals within the flower,
the title within the flower.
The only thing that changes
is kind of whether the group,
itself the flower, the whole movie
itself gets filtered out or not.
And thus,
the all the pedals inside don't change and
so that's why it doesn't matter
if we are doing all of this
creation within the Enter selection for
the group.
If for example you have
a nested structure where your
children the element we'll update and
change when the data on your
parent element changes also.
So both of these needs to change,
then you would want to
change some of these kind of updating
parts and on what the joint returns.
So you want to chain all of
these kind of data setting and
so you will want to take this out and
you want to say .selectAll
the pads on the Enter
plus update selection together and and
set all of the attributes the data
dependent attributes on there.
But because and
we don't care about updating the children,
it's perfectly okay for
us, in this example to
do everything within
the Enter selection and
that helps us keep the rest
of everything simpler.
And for right now we don't actually need
to do anything on the Update selection for
the group.
And we also don't need to do
anything on the Exit selection for
the group because this .join will take
care of removing our excess selection,
removing our extraneous
groups out of the DOM.
Again, I'm we don't have to worry
about all of the children elements and
what happens to those because you know,
as soon as the parent group element gets
removed those children
elements get removed also.
So, for this part one of the exercise
we don't have to worry about the Update
selection or the Exit selection.
Instead, what we'll finish up with
is we will chain on this .join,
which again gives us back
the Enter plus update selection.
We will chain our trends form.
Hence form because then and every time
we filter down on these movies and
then the positions of each of these
flowers can update accordingly.
And so that will be d.translate.
And so, hopefully if we did
this part correctly, then,
We did not, I did not, so
let's see what happened and
I'm going to scroll back up really
quickly to see what's happening.
Path, that is okay.
So the otter is not being set,
that's right.
Okay, so I know what happened.
And what's happening right now is we
have to remember to return
that Enter selection and
then once we've returned that
s selection of group elements,
the newly created group elements,
then d3 knows in .join, to join and
merge that Enter selection
with our Update selection.
So now, we should have it correctly.
And actually this is also incorrect
because we want to get the title out of
our data and hopefully that will
have everything rendered cool.
So now we have everything rendered.
And if we then go ahead and try to filter.
Perfect, so
you see that all of the flowers
are being entered and exited and
updated to the right positions.
And so let's take a moment
to kind of congratulate
ourselves to getting this far.
This is I think, very exciting.
[LAUGH] So let's take a moment.
Let's play around a little bit and
enjoy the fruits of your labor.
And yeah, all right, that is bugging me.
So I'm gonna truncate that title.
So we're gonna do your truncate.
We pass in the length to truncate
two choose or pass in 20.
Awesome, so yeah, look at that.
There's also a little bit
harder to tile up, but
I think this is the fire-like
flower petal that VJ
provided us with, really, really cool.
Yeah, wow,
I hope you feel a sense of accomplishment.
[LAUGH] That was a lot to
get to in these two days.
Okay, and don't worry,
if you weren't able to
like type up everything
in this code cell block,
because again, we have everything in here.
All of the solutions in here
that you can reference.